David Li
dli44@jhu.edu

Lab 3a: Monte Carlo Simulations

Q1. How do you find out more about the tar command?

You can use man tar to see its man page. You can also use tar -help
to see command-line options.

Q2. Why don't we set the algorithm to give us a larger percentage acceptance
(i.e. use smaller displacement)?

It is a result of the Metropolis criterion - if our displacement is too small
then we don't see significant changes in the system but if the displacement is
too large then we may have issues with atoms occupying the same position. According
to Dr Fleming, it was calculated mathematically that the optimal acceptance
rate for Monte Carlo simulations is around 50%, so that explains why the percentage
tends toward 50% in our simulation.

Q3. What is the average inter-atomic distance?

Average distance is 3.2 Angstrom

Q4. What do you expect to happen to this lattice during your simulation?

I expect the inter-atomic distance to increase.

Q5. Why do many blue spheres suddenly appear on the other side of the system?

It's a residue of our viewing frame -- the blue spheres starting on the left
move out of the frame but we have other spheres entering the frame of the system
due to periodic boundary conditions. In other words, we no longer track the
original blue spheres since they move away but we track new ones since they move
into the picture.

Q6. Are the colors well mixed (an indication of equilibrium)?

The colors are quite well mixed.

Q7. What are some inter-atomic distances?

In a sample of 10 inter-atomic distances, distances are
3.6, 4.2, 5.7, 4.1, 3.7, 3.3, 3.9, 6.4, 3.8, 4.8 angstroms,
all of which are larger than the original starting distances of 3.2 angstrom

Q8. What is the ideal atomic distance for this system?

We can calculate the ideal (minimum energy distance) for the system
by using the Lennard-Jones equation.

Rmin = 1.12 * r_0 = 1.12 * 3.4 = 3.808

So the ideal distance is about 3.808 Angstrom

Q9. Why aren't all atomic distances at the minimum energy distance?

Not all distances are at the ideal distance because of randomness in the
simulation and because the energy of the state follows a probability
distribution, so the state energy is not exactly at the ideal minimum energy.

Q10. Does the system appear to have reached equilibrium?

Yes, the energy level seems to have plateaued with small fluctuations,
so it has likely reached its equilibrium state, even though the
energy level is not exactly constant.

Q11. What should the plot look like at equilibrium?

At equilibrium we might expect the plot to be a flat line (i.e. constant
energy).

Q12. What does each command and argument in a line below do?

I will explain the following command, the other three are similar.
$sed -n '1,200p' energy.dat | awk '{print $2}' > 1.dat


Q13. Does the system appear to have reached equilibrium?

There are small variations in the mean and standard deviation, but the means
and standard deviations of the second through fourth data files are very
close to each other - the system appears to have reached equilibrium.


Q14. Does the system appear to have maintained a stable energy value with small
fluctuations?


Q15. What would be the slope of the fitted line at equilibrium and how does
your calculated slope compare?

At equilibrium we expect the slope of the fitted line to be 0 -- a flat line.

