1. What is the meaning of the redirect symbols < and >?

The redirect symbols are used for treating file data as standard input
and standard output. Specifically < reads a file into standard input
and > reads standard output into a file.

2. What are the coordinates of the first atom (GLY, N)?

The coordinates are (0.0, 0.0, 0.0).

3. What are the coordinates of the second atom (GLY, CA)?

The coordinates are (1.451, 0.0, 0.0).

4. Do the coordinates agree with the Z-matrix?

Yes, the coordinates agree with the Z-matrix.

5. What is the torsion angle value and does it agree with the Z-matrix above?

The given torsion angle is -64, and the PyMOL calculated angle is -64.006.
It agrees with the Z-matrix.

6. Are these two atoms in van der Waals overlap?

The distance between the atoms is 2.5 A, which is less than 1.35 + 1.65 A
so they are in vdW overlap.

7. Would this conformation of the peptide be the lowest energy conformation
given the Lennard-Jones description of atomic interaction energies?

This conformation wouldn't be the lowest energy conformation because
the lowest energy conformation is when the distance is equal to the vdW distance.

8. Do the vdW surfaces of the above carbonyl oxygen and Cb carbon atoms overlap?

Yes, they overlap.

9. Do any other non-bonded atoms overlap?

There appears to be some overlap between Nitrogens and the carbonyl
carbons as well as the carbonyl carbons with Cb.

10. What are the phi, psi values for the helix structure?

The values are phi=-60, psi = -40.

11. Does the helix structure have hydrogen bonds between the O(i) and N(i+4)?

Yes.

12. What are the phi, psi values for the strand structure?

The phi, psi values are -120, 130.

13. Are all rotamers equally sterically probable in both helix and strand conformations?

In strand, all are probable, but in helix, two of the conformations have high vdW overlap with nitrogen, so those are less probable.

14. Which backbone conformation, helix or strand, is preferred for valine?

Strand is more preferred for valine.

15. Explain your last answer in terms of Boltzmann statistics.

In strand conformation, the valine rotamers exist at lower energy states
compared to that of helix. So, the strand conformation is preferred for valine.

