David Li
dzli@jhu.edu
Lab 4c

Q1. How many conformations will this produce?

If we run the program for 25000 cycles and save a conformation
every 50th cycle, we will have 25000/50 = 500 conformations

Q2. Is a helical conformation sampled?

Yes, a helical conformation is sampled.

Q3. Which move type is accepted more often, Helix or Strand(Sheet)?

Helix move types are accepted more often, with no residue dipping below
2000 acceptances, but sheet moves mostly have fewer than 2000 acceptances.

Q4. How are the two simulations different? Why?

The simulations were very different since the polyvaline stayed in a
strand conformation basically the whole time.

They would be different because polyvaline has more conformational freedom
in the side chains so polyvaline biases more toward strand conformation,
whereas the polyalanine biases more toward helix conformation.
Looking in the log file, I noticed that very few helix moves were accepted
and many strand moves were accepted.

Q5. Was the above hypothesis correct?

Our hypothesis was that polyvaline biases the conformational distribution
away from helix compared to polyalanine. Because polyvaline had fewer
helix acceptances and more strand/sheet acceptances, it seems that
the conformations are biased more toward strand and away from helix.

Q6. Which force field potential, if any, generated more compact structures on
average? Give the average Rg for each FF in your answer.

The average Rg for hydrogen bonding is 11.5 A and the average Rg for hydrophobic effects
is 11.19. Thus hydrophobic effects generates more compact structures on average.

Q7. Which force field potential, if any, generated the most compact minimal energy
structure? Give the Rg for the minimal energy structure for each FF potential.

The most compact minimal energy structure was attained with the hydrophobic effects.
The minimum achieved by hydrogen bonding was 7.205 A and the minimum for 
hydrophobic effects was 6.863 A.

Q8. How are these two structures different with respect to the number of H-bonds
and positions of leucine side chains?

The hydrophobic effect structure has more hydrogen bonding and the leucine side chains
are in close proximity to each other. On the other hand, in the hydrogen bond effect
structure, the leucines are all separated away from each other and there are no visible
hydrogen bonds -- the structure is a lot more linear.

Q9. How, then, does one bias hydrophobic side chains away from the protein
surface toward the interior in "state of the art" protein simulations?

The hydrophobic force field is primarly on the inner surface of proteins. In a simulation
we would use some polar solvent which allows hydrogen bonds to be created. These bias
the hydrophobic side chains toward the interior. 

Q10. Based on your results, which type of interaction, hydrogen bonding or
hydrophobic effects, is more important for the initial folding of proteins?

Hydrogen bonding is more important for the initial folding of proteins.
