David Li
dli44@jhu.edu
Lab 1c

Q1:
This makes sense because the trans, gauche, and eclipsed conformations of
butane all have varying potential energies due to torsion. Particularly, the
eclipsed conformations have higher energy because the high torsional strain
caused by the close proximity of methyl groups. When the methyl groups are
far away from each other as in the trans conformation, the potential energy
from torsional strain is minimized.

Q2:
The activation barriers to rotation are the potential energy wells, as shown in
the graph. The wells at theta = 60 and theta = 300 are the gauche conformation,
and in order to further rotate it must go toward an eclipsed conformation,
which have higher energy. The activation energies for rotation toward the
trans conformation are E-epsilon.


Q3:
The torsion angle around theta = 180 (trans conformation) has lower
potential energy than the rest because the methyl groups are furthest from each
other at that point, and thus has the least torsional strain and therefore less
potential energy.

Q4:
The deltaE energy difference determines dynamic and static flexibility.

Q5:

The epsilon energy difference determines the equilibrium proportions of the
three most favorable conformations.

Q6:
The histogram doesn't indicate randomness - we would expect the histogram
to be closer to equal height for all buckets. However, since the deviation
from flat is fairly small, it's likely that it's truly random.

Q7:
If we wanted to increase our confidence that the data is random,
we could increase the number of samples or trials, for instance to 1000000 data
points. Doing so would eliminate more of the randomness associated with
sampling.


Q8:

The histogram roughly looks like a gaussian distribution, but there are some
buckets/bins that have higher frequency due to random sampling.

Q9:

After applying the curve onto the histogram, the general shape of a gaussian
distribution exists within the shape of the histogram, but there are variations
- the fit is not perfect.

Q10:

We could try bucketing into fewer bins - this would reduce the variance of
numbers going in particular bins.

Doing so helps somewhat, but you still see inevitable variation in the size of
buckets - this is expected when you have fewer samples from a distribution.

You could also try using more samples of data - if we increased the data from
1000 samples to say 1000000 samples, we see much better fit to the Gaussian
distribution.
