Q1. What experimental method accounts for the majority of solved molecular structures?

X-ray diffraction makes up about 90 percent of solved molecular structures so
it makes up the majority of structures.

Q2. What secondary structure type is the most abundantly found in myoglobin?

Alpha helices are the most abundant secondary structure in the myoglobin sample.

Q3. What organism is the protein from?

It's from a sperm whale.

Q4. Who determined the structure?

The authors who determined the structure were R.D.SMITH, J.S.OLSON, and
G.N.PHILLIPS JR.

Q5. What is the resolution for this X-ray determined structure?

The resolution is 1.71 Angstroms.

Q6. Why is this number important?

Since the accuracy depends on resolution, we can only determine details
of the protein up to 1.7 Angstroms. 1.7 A is high enough resolution that
we can be sure of the accuracy of the X-ray determined structure, since
it is on the order of the length of a hydrogen bond.

Q7.What units are the coordinates given in? What is the conversion between this number
and nanometers?

The coordinates are given in Angstroms (10^-10 m). So the conversion between
Angstrom to nanometers is 10 (one order of magnitude).

Q8.In the myoglobin PDB file (still displayed in your browser) which atoms are NOT in
specific positions all the time

The atom numbers 522-526 have occupancies less than 1 (value 0.53), so
they are not in specific positions all the time.

Q9.

We expect the surface to have a more smeared density map than the core, since
the atoms in the core are so tightly packed and the core is much more rigid.

Q10.

Atoms in the backbone have less dynamic flexibility than those in the sidechain,
since the backbone is more rigid and there are more interactions for the atoms
in the sidechain.

Q11. What did you get?

You get the output [1.0, 2.0, 3.0], which are the contents of X.

Q12. What is the name of the output file?

The name of the output file is "init.pdb", since it is opened for writing
and is written to.

Q13. What is the residue name used for all residues in this file?

The residue name is UNK.

Q14. What is the atom type used in this file?

The atom type is "O", or oxygen.

Q15. What color are the spheres?
The spheres are now green.

Q16. Why are the spheres of larger radius?

Carbon has a larger atomic radius than Oxygen because there is stronger
nuclear pull in Oxygen than Carbon and they have the same electron shells.
Hence the atomic radius in carbon will be larger.


