David Li
Lab 4b
dli44@jhu.edu

Q1. What conformation is defined by the default phi, psi values, helix or strand?

The default values are phi = -120 and psi = 120. This defines strand coformation.

Q2. Is the minimum energy structure mostly a strand or a helix?

The minimum energy structure is mostly a helix.

Q3. How does this compare with the starting structure?

This is different from the starting structure since the original structure is a strand.

Q4. Why would the structure seen in ala_strand.min have a favorable energy minimum?

This structure would have a favorable energy minimum since it is at a higher entropy
and is thus more stable so this conformation has more ways to be achieved.

Q5. What conformation is the new low energy structure ala_helix_min.pdb?

It's mostly helix.

Q6. Is it similar to the previous low-energy structure from the strand starting
conformation in terms of helix content? Should it be different?

It's similar, and we'd expect the low-energy structures to go toward a helix in
both cases if the low-energy structure is a helix-like structure.

Q7. Does the starting structure have an effect on the equilibrated minimum energy
structure in terms of whether you end up with helix or strand?

No, if we are using a Monte Carlo method then the starting structure should not
affect what the equilibrium structure is because we assume we are following a Markov process.

Q8. Do you think the simulation followed a Markov process?

Yes, since we arrived at similar equilibrium conformations independent of the
starting structure of the protein.

Q9. How many conformations should be in this file?

There should be 10000 conformations (since 50000/5 = 10000). The command resulted in 10000 models.

Q10. If you don't remember what the commands grep and wc mean how do you find out?

You can use --help flags or check the man pages for the commands.

Q11. How is this escape from the downhill energy tendency achieved in your simulation?

We escape from the downhill energy tendency because of the random moves to higher-energy states in
our MC simulation in the Metropolis criterion. This allows us to sample higher energy (lower entropy)
conformations through randomness introduced in the Metropolis criterion.

Q12. Would you say many different conformations were sampled or not?

Yes, many different conformations were sampled.
