David Li
Lab 5b

Q1. Is the slope of the total energy close to 0? Are the energy fluctuations
around this mean value random (qualitative inspection)?

Yes, the slope of the best fit line is more or less 0, and the variations 
around the best fit line seem random.

Q2. Are the energies distributed in an approximately Boltzmann fashion?

Yes the histogram shows a general bell-shaped curve.

Q3. How could you obtain a distribution with less noise?

We could run the simulation for longer (or use smaller timesteps) to reduce 
the effects of random variation. They will always be present but we can increase
the scale of everything else to cause the scale of randomness to be smaller.

Q4 doesn't exist?

Q5. What are the average and S.D. RMSD values?
The average is 1.344 A and the S.D. is 0.260 A

Q6. Remembering that a carbon atom has a radius of ~2A what would you 
estimate the range of side chain conformational fluctuations?

Some carbon atoms move only a little (0.5A), but many side chain CA 
move quite a bit more (2-3A). Range = 0.5A - 3A

Q7. Is this more or less than the backbone CA RMSD you calculated above?

This is more than the backbone CA RMSD we calculated.

Q8. Do you observe a change in any side chain rotamers during this time range?

I saw a few changes in the side chain rotamers.

Q9. How many degrees of bond rotation is required for a rotamer change?

We need 120 degrees of bond rotation to get a rotamer change.

Q10. Would you expect to see a rotamer change in 5ns?

I would expect to see at least one rotamer change in 5ns because side 
chain rotation  occurs on the approximate timescale of picoseconds to 
nanoseconds.

Q11. Remembering that a carbon atom has a radius of ~2A what would you 
estimate the range of backbone CA atom conformational fluctuations?

Some backbone CA move only a little (0.5A), some move a 
bit more (1.5A). Range = 0.5A - 1.5A

Q12. Is this more or less than the backbone CA RMSD you calculated above?

This yields an average movement of 1A, which is slightly lower, 
but approximately the same as the CA backbone RMSD calculated above. 

Q13. What kind of secondary structure (helix, strand, loop) are these 
two residues with high backbone mobility in?

Loop

Q14. What kind of secondary structure (helix, strand, loop) are these seven 
consecutive residues with low backbone mobility in?

Helix (approximately residues 48/49 to 54)


